
Prashant Data Science Journey on Microsoft:

Start doing internship.

Interview for internship.

4 to 5 internships.


Make sure you have done some Really cool projects which you can show in the interviews for internships.

Internship is very crucial point. because, You have to know that compunies do not generally offer interview even without the experience.
So, if you some experience then they will consider you for interview for the internship.



Interview process:

One thing which is common in all the companies willing to hire a data scientist:

1. One round of around your Projects.: Its not about what you did. They don't listen it. 
In data Science, around 20% of the time you will be modelling something. and other 80% of the time Data cleaning and doing software engineering stuff.
So, its not about what you did it just about how you did. 

What would you do if you do this project today.
How you landed up this project into production.
What is the elementary thing that going on there.

2. DSA Round: 
This is another round. Most of the aspiring data scientists worry about of this DSA round.

Its not up to the level of ingineering. Its basic to medium level. 
It does not have very high impect on the total feedback. If you OK OK in your Algo round and very good in data science it pretty much good to them. 
And many company don't have a DSA Round. 

3. Core Data Science: 
this round is again very high impect round. you may be know DSA. you know what you did. But you don't know what is gradient descent, los function, the antropy, what is matric,
So, you can't work with us you can't understand our language. 

4. K study Round: 
This is not so common round. This round is generally for experienced people its not for freshers, 
You will be given some problem and you need to think about it how would you solve it. What comes in your brain, There is nothing right or wrong about it. 
They don't see wheather your answer is right or wrong, they focus only and only on your approch and after giving you some feedback about it. they will focus on your reaction over their feedback. Wheather you are very rigid on your approch. Data Science is all about experimentation. you have to be flaxible. not rigid.

1. Basic core ML and upbit on my project.
2. TSA or DSA: there were two question need to solve in one hour. 
It will be normally from low to medium level. Mostly around arrays , strings and might involve some DB problems. but involve some complex data structures like trees heevs.



3. K study Round: 
4. Hiring Manager Round.: This round was all about me have i ever led a team. What projects have i done. have you gone to production ever.

I would recommed talk to a recruiter. Your recruiter will defenitely help you in understanding your interviewer profile. 
Check out their interview profile on linkedin.
And there some overlapping work over interviewr with you. 
I would really, say that go thoroughly on the topic. because defenitely that one will come. 



Roadmap:

Basics Python: Advance level is not required. 

Basic Maths: Understand basic maths. specially differentiation. 

Modeling: 20% of the time you will be modelling. and 80% of the time you will be playing with the data. You should know how to play with the data.

So, learn basics of SQL. basics of OpenCV. 
in Python. Pandas and numpy.

Before Machine Learning, I would strictly recommend to go some basic algorithms: very basic algorithm like KNN, distance based algorithm,
For initial tools i would really recommend to even implement them from scratch. So, once you implement them from scratch. you will have an understanding ok how this is going to perform when you training the model, when you testing the model. 
Initial two three algorithms just follow a bit from scratch. 
And then jump directly into the Sklearn package. 
ScikitLearn package has a very good documentatiton, 

Then you can catogorise a roadmap for you like: 
in preprocessing: 
    these steps.
in Data modelling:
    these steps.
in Tree Based classifier:
    these steps.

and there is also very extract implementation present.

Then you should jump to a little detailing of that algorithm. 
What all assumption that algorithm make. 
what all challenges that this algorithm could face.

Then Only you should jump to Deep learning.
And learn gradient descent, then bnn, then cnn.

Resources cum mentor for Data Sciene:
    1. Kaggle
    2. StackOverflow

kaggle: follow peoples notebook. following discussion on that notebook is very healthy.

1. Andrew Ng deep learning specialisation course not the old one.
2. StatQuest by Josh Starmer: for machine learning alogrithm.

3. for Deep Learning algorithms: course by andrech carpethy Stanford course available on Youtube: CS229.

CS224 for NLP.
CS231.

Andrech Carpethy website
En good fellow  website
Jay Almar for NLP website
Satosa website for image karnals.


Salary: 

Fresher working on startups: 5 to 10 lakh
For good Startup: 10 to 15 lakh
For Faang level startup: range upto 25 lakh.
If you have 2 to 3 years of experience: in Faang or cool startup like creed, sharechat, myntra:  it can go 30 to 32 Lakh.

Going to very normal company:
if you have more than 1 years of experience: Earning 10 Lakh plus is a norm there now.



----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            Geologist to Data Scientist:

    Study with blogs like: 
Towards DataScience, Analytics Vidya . These are to the point.

    Job Apply:
I have been applying since November 2020 and till almost aprail.

I used to apply 20 companies / Day. And this was my mandatory thing for every day.


    Position:
Decision and Analyst Associate.


If company has a job posting its better to get reffered.
There are thousand of candidate applying for that job but what makes you stand out. :   By getting a refferal.

So, You will have to contact the people who are willing to give you a refferal based on Your CV.
Even Getting a refferal is a big task.



Data Science is all about Persistence

If you can pickup the laptop. You can sit 10 to 12 Hours a day for 5 to 6 months.

You will be able to do projects on Kaggle. You will gain that kind of skillset.

But Its all about persistence and Patiance.



Make connections on Linkedin:

How well you can maintain your connections on linkedin.

If a person in the company a guy appliying on  vows for the guy on linkedin. So, obviously that guy will get job on the company. Not the guy who is applying through the site.

So, you need to have connections, you have to build connections on linkedin. You need to be active their. 


Watch again this podcast. After completing syllabus.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                    Bio Graduate to Sales Job Became Data Analyst

We need to know to become a data Analyst:

    Excel
    Basic Python
    Tableu
    SQL
    Machine learning along with statistics.




When you are applying for any company did they raised conserned for your past background:

    Odin school shared my resume. I didn't really know if my resume is getting rejected. 
For company applying for my side then Yes my resume were getting rejected. Not a lot of time because of my Degree. Because these days i don't think its depends on your degree whatever you do. It depends on what skills you afford. And how you are giving an interview. It actually good to give 7 to 8 interviews or 12 to 15 interviews because i actually understood how IT industry works. I understood the pattern of their interviews. 


Projects and Resume:

We have given a proper project for every module and we used to upload that project on Github like after completing python module. We used to given a small programming challenge like projects. which we could show that on github. We used to upload every projects on github after doing a module. 
Capstone projects helped me a lot. 
I worked on some one or two datasets from kaggle and github which was really easy and i was able to understand what i am doing and practiced on them and uploaded that also on my github. 

So, this is what i have done on my projects and presented to Interviewrs.



Interview Rounds:

there are around 3 to 4 interview round 3 is minimum and 4 is maximum.

1. HR Round: first round would be hr Round which would be very small round where in you are just on call you are talking to the HR. and they just see how you are communicating and how you communicate. 

2. Aptitude Test: Some company have it where in you are checked on your maths skills or problem solving skills. so, that is again very less not all company does this. They can also give you the dataset on tableu or SQL or Machine learning and they can actually ask you to do the analysis and give it to them.
Either it is Aptitude or they will give you the dataset and they will ask you to submit it in a day. 

3. First Technical Round: Interviewr would ask some technical questions related to python, SQL, tableu, Machine learning. What i was asked is that : 
    Basic Python skill like lambda function. they would also ask you some difficult questions as well. They would increase their difficulty level. on every topic. They might also ask you to write the solution of the question on chat section for SQL and for Python. for Tableu they might not ask about drag and drop question. they ask you about the basics of Tableu. 
Then we come to Machine Learning. In machine learning they will ask you about your projects that you have done They would go to your github profile and then they will ask question on that they will ask you how did you do and what all things that you added into that. 
And then they will ask few questions on statistics because statistics and machine learning go hand in hand. So, they expect you to know the theory before your practical. 

4.  Second Technical Round: In this you will also have similar question but not very difficult again. if you are good with your basic knowledge i think you would get through it. 


About my self: 

    I was working on a sales domain. It was not an IT domain where i can skip a little time to study. So, i never had that. So, i used to work for 10 hours and then study for 2 to 3 hours. So, I think it was difficult but what kept me motivated is that my brother was on IT industry. I used to look at they way he used to work. He never had lot of stress. he used to say that this is what i learned today. So, this was my dream to work on a IT company and i will also learn new thing every single day and having a growth in my hand. 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Tips and Tricks to Learn Data Science Faster by CampusX


1. Python, Pandas, Statistics basics, Data Visualization: These 4 things are crucially important. these are Fundamentals and Basics. Your fundamental and basics on this topics must be cleared. Because these are those 20% things which will come in use 80% of the time.


2. ML Algorithms: Top 10 Algorithms are which would be ask on every interview are: 
    Linear Regression
    Logistic Regression 
    SVM
    Decision Trees
    Random Forest
    Bagin
    Boosting

   
3. Learn by Doing: Make Projects. Because when you make projects. work on projects. Aapki Learning ko 1 Why mil jata hai. jiske baad aap jo bhi padhte ho wo aapke dimag me baith jata hai.


4. Understand the Reward System: 


5. Find a Mentor: 


6. Find a study Partner or Study Group: 


7. Spend time on Kaggle: scroll 15 to 20 minutes on kaggle even without any perpose.


8. Don't follow the herd: Bhed chaal follow mat karo. like Andrew Ng ka course karna hi hai. is tarah ka bhed chaal ki sab kar rahe hai to mujhe bhi karna chahiye.


9. Document Your Learning: Rivision, and Rivision.


10. Focused Learning: 1 din me sirf 1 hi Hard cheej karo. jaise Python seekhte samay hum sirf Python me hi focus karte the us din usi tarah.


11. Improve Analytical skills: Common sense improve karna chahiye. coding me aapko out of the box sochna padta hai. par Data Science ke field me aapko common sense lagana hota hai.
download apps to improve common sense.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   How I would learn Data Science by CampusX

1. False Expectations: 

    6 Months me Data Science ya Machine Learning sirf utna seekh jana hai jitna interview me required hai. 6 Months me poora Data Science ya Machine Learning seekh jaenge aisa nahi ho sakta kyuki Machine Learning bahut hi jyada Vast field hai. Aap kisi Company me kaam karte rahte hai tab bhi Machine Learning me kuch kuch cover karte hi rahte hai. aur Machine Learning ke syllabus ko complete karne ka koshish karte rahte hai. Aur Machine Learning me bahut sare cheeje Update hote rahti hai. isliye jitna jaldi ho sake Interview me baithne layak Machine Learning seekh lena hai aur Interview me baith jana hai. 
    

2. Not Sticking to a single Roadmap: 

Roadmap badalte nahi rahna hai. koi ek Roadmap pakadna hai. aur usko religiosly follow karna hai. Kahi par atke to kahi ka Roadmap follow karna shuru kar diye kahi pe atke to kahi ka roadmap me ghus gae. aisa nahi karna hai. Ek Roadmap pakadna hai. aur usi ko follow karna hai atak rahe hai to bhi usi me aage badhna hai.


3. Lack of Consistency: 

If you are consistant then your learning would add up. aap ne aaj padh aur kal phir padha to wo jud ke Add ho jaega. To conclusion ye hai ki Daily consitant padhai karna hai. Agar aap consitant hoge to apki Learning 10X ho jaega.


4. Not mastering the Pillars of Data Science: 

The 3 Pillars of Data Science-
    1. Python
    2. SQL
    3. Statistics
    
    if you have given a 6 hours to cut a tree You should be invest your 4 hours of time into sharpening the axe.
    In the field of Data Science you will incouter these 3 things on Daily basis. Apko Python aur Statistics to har din sabse jyada dikhai dega. 
    Agar aapne in teeno chijo ko to master nahi kar rakha hai. Aur aapne kisi ka code uthaya apne me implement karne ke liye aur aap usko study karne ki koshish kar rahe ho. to aap suddenly se notice karenge ki use Python ka ek complex ka syntax likha hua jo aapko samajh me nahi aa raha hai. aapko koi idea nahi hai us code ka. to ab aap kya karenge aap usko band karoge aur koi doosra notebook utha ke padhne lag jaoge. 
    Lekin aapne Python, SQL aur Statistics ko master kar chuke hai to aapko Daily Basis pe Problems nahi hongi. To aap time do pahle Python SQL aur Statistics ko ache se seekhne me. Ye aapke Aage ki journey ko bahut smooth bana dega. 
    
    
5. Practical Aspect of Data Science: 

    a) Data Cleaning or Data Preprocessing
    b) Feature Engineering
    c) Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)   
    
    Interview crack karna ek baat hai. phir industry me ja kar ke ek Ache Data Scientist ki tarah kaam karna ek bahut alag baat hai. If you want to become a good Data Scientist in a practical way not just in interview. Then You must master these 3 things. These are the Magical Qualities of a Data Scientist. these all things are based on practice so take datasets, try to clean them, perform EDA, perform feature engineering. 
    
    
6. Real world Datasets: 

Not trying out real world datasets was also my one of the mistakes that i have done while learning Data Science. 
Agar mujhe phir se seekhne ka mauka milega to mai Kaggle pe jaunga, aur waha se real world based Datasets khojunga aur unke oopar kaam karunga. 


7. Learning ML Algorithms on wrong order: 

Aap kuch algorithms pe jyada time Spend karo: Linear Regression, Logistic Regression, SVM, PCA, ON SOMBLE Learning which includes Baging, Boosting, Stacking etc. 
Aur in sabko Algorithms ko seekhne ke order me pahle seekhna hai. pahle cover karna hai. 
kyuki agar inko baad ke liye choroge to utne ache se tayari nahi kar paoge. Iske baad jitne bache hue algorithms hai unko cover karna hai jaise: KNN, Neive Baiese, ye sab baad me karna hai.
Google search Which are the Top 10 Machine Learning Algorithms. then in 10 ko sabse pahle padhna hai. aur baki ko baad me. nahi to sequence bigda to shuru wale me strong rahoge aur baad wale me weak ho jaoge. 


8. Deployment and Monitoring of Models: 

I haven't gave much attension on Deployment and Monitoring of Models. shuru ke dino me mai kisi tarah se model bana diya karta tha aur model bante hi mera kaam khatam ho jata tha. 
Agar aap abhi ke Date me Job dhundh rahe ho Data Science domain me to Abhi Companies ye expect karti hai ki jo candidate hai usko sirf Model banana hi nahi model ko deploy karna usko monitor karna, usko product me convert karna bhi aana chahiye. 
Suggestion: Agar aaj aap apna pahla project bana rahe ho to uske liye bhi aap socho ki mai isko ek website me kaise convert kar sakta hu, kaise mai isko online la sakta hu, kaise mai isko monitor kar sakta hu, kaise mai iska cost reduce kar sakta hu. Ye aapko hamesha sochna padega. aap aisa nahi kar sakte ki aapne pahle modeling seekha aur last me ekdam ek hafta laga ke Deployment me kaam kar rahe ho. nahi . agar aapne 10 projects banae hai to daso project ko Online Le ke jao. Alag alag Platforms ke oopar kaam karo. Heroku, AWS, Azure GCP . in sare Platforms ka flavour lo CICD pipelines kya hote hai. Different Operating system ke oopar aap apne model ko deploy kar ke dekho . ye sabkuch aaj ke date me important ho gaya hai. Aaj ke Date me ek Nai Field nikal ke aai hai. MLops kahte hai. aur agar aap Job description me ja ke dekhoge companies ka to ye mentioned rahta hai, ki the candidate should have good skill in ML ops. So, if you are starting out please focus on Diployment. 


9. Interview Prep. : 

mujhe agar abhi shuru se shurat karne ko kaha jae to Jaise hi mai koi Topic cover karunga. to mai saath hi saath us topic ka Interview preperation bhi karunga. Lets Say Linear Regression ke Padhai ki and i have done it. to mai search karunga ki Linear Regression ke oopar kaun se questions pooche jaate hai. aur saath hi saath isko bhi cover kar lunga. 
To jyadatar log ye approch follow karne ki koshish karte hai ki wo pahle ke 4 mahine ya 6 mahine padhai karte hai aur phir last me ek mahina ya do mahina alag se Interview preperation karte hai. Mera manna hai ab itna experience gather karne ke baad ki ye dono processes aap ko saath me simultaniously follow karne chahiye. tab aapko jyada benifit dega. Agar aap 6 mahine padhai kar rahe ho. to 6 mahine interview preperation bhi karne hai. alag se interview preperation mujhe nahi lagta ki is a logical way of doing it. What you should do is right from day 1 you should also start interview preperations. 


10. Mentor & Study Groups: 

My last mistake was Not having a Mentor & Study Groups. 

Mentor aapka rasta aasan kar deta hai. apni galtiya aapke saamne rakh kar ke taki aap un galtiyo ko repeat na karo. kahi bhi aap atak jate ho jaise machine learning me to aapka time bhi bacha deta hai. So, You should get a Mentor. Kya padhna hai kya nahi padhna hai bahut easily samajh me aa jane lagega. e.g., SQL ke baare me puchna ki Sir SQL daily basis me kaam aata hai. kya cheej padhe SQL me jo according Data Science bahut jyada important hai. aur jo sabse jyada baar use me aaega.

Study Groups: aapke Pears hone chahiye aapke jaise log jo data Science me ghusna chahte hai. 
agar aap ek group form kar lo 2 log ke ho to bhi chalega 3 logo ke ho to bhi chalega. aapka motivation khatam ho jata hai, Patrol khatam ho jata hai un dino me aap un logo se baat kar sakte ho aur wo apko help out kar sakte hai baat kar ke. kisi problem me phase ho to wo asani se solve ho sakta hai. Basically ye bahot jyada important lagta hai. 
    e.g., Famous Study groups se buddy bana ke another group banana hai aur waha chat karna hai. 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  How to select A Project in Data Science by CampusX


You need only 2 things to Crack any Data Science Job: 

2 P's:
    1. Preperation: All the technical knowledge to become a Data Science.
    2. Presentation: Profile and resume building. and how you present yourself on interview(Which include communication skill, english, analytical skill in highly pressure setting)


And there are a 3rd P which also comes under the most important. but it comes under both of the above: inside preperation also, and inside presentation also. 
The 3rd P is : Projects.

#Projects: Machine learning and data science me kitne bhi algorithm padh lo. agar aapne us algorithm ko ek practical real world data set me apply nahi karte. 
    
    *Projects ke bina Preperation adhura hai. Aur
    *Projectst ke bina Presentation wale part ko crack kar hi nahi sakte. kyuki Interview me pahla question most probabily Projects ke oopar hi hoga. 
    
    
    How to select a Project in Data Science: 
    
    1. Don't be a specialist: Aapko Ek se jyada Project banana hai. par wo projects Same nahi ho. wo sare projects alag ho unme diversity ho, alag domain me ho, alag topics ke oopar ho. e.g., agar aapne ek project banaya NLP ke oopar to doosra project banao Computer vision ke oopar, teesra Time series ke oopar , chautha Gands ke oopar. 
    Reason ye hai ki, Lead role me aapse ye expect kiya jata hai ki aapko ek domain ka pata ho par poore depth me pata ho. lekin Entry level jobs me ye expect kiya jata hai. ki aapko bahut saare cheeje aati ho. aapne alag alag cheeje try kar rakhi ho. kyuki ek poora industry ek gaadi ke tarah hai. aur imployee waha ke ek piece hai jo alag alag jagah par fit hai. Agar aap ye show karte hai ki mai ek perticular jagah pe hi fit ho sakta hu. to aapka jo interviewr hai wo sochega ki is perticular jagah pe agar kaam nahi rahega to is bande ko bitha ke rakhna padega. Instead of this agar aapke profile ko dekhkar aur presentation se unhe ye lag jae ki aapse koi bhi kaam karaya jaega aap kar lenge. to unhe lagega ki ye banda sahi hai. isse wo kaam bhi kara sakte hai. wo kaam bhi kara sakte hai. ye har jagah ka kaam handle kar sakta hai. 
    To entry level pe breath of knowledge jyada matter karta hai. instead of depth of knowledge. 
    To apne project ko is tarah se banao ki aap ek Specialist ke badle ek generalist dikhai do. ek aisa banda jo different situations me different different cheeje handle kar pata ho. 
    
    
    2. Project Thinking: agar aap se poocha jae ki - Aapka project bana kaise? aur aapka jawab hai- mujhe pata hai. Project internet pe chal kaise raha hai? mujhe pata hai. Product ka kharcha kaise ghataya ja sakta hai? ye sab mujhe pata hai. to is tarah ke candidate ko har company hire karna chahta hai jisko ovarall product thinking aati ho. 
    Aur ye develop kaise hoga. ye rat lene se nahi aayega. ya project bana liye aur wo kaam kar gaya to kaam khatam. is thinking se kuch bhi nahi hone wala hai. ye bahut dangerous hai aapke interviw ke liye. 
    Agar aapko ek project banana hai. to aapki thinking ye hone chahiye ki aap isko as a product launch karenge. isme aapka naam bhi juda rahega. aur aapko sab janenge ki is product ko aapne banaya hai. To isko bahut hi seriously banaoge. tab ye product best banega. jab aap decide karoge website me convert karne ke liye to uske UI ke chote chote cheejo ka bhi khayal rakhoge. Server me upload karna padega. Cloud computing ke saath kaise kaaam karte hai ye bhi seekhoge. bahut saare log us product ko use karne lagenge to AWS se mail aane lagega ki kharcha bahut aa raha hai. to ab aapka dimag ye bhi sochne lagega ki is kharche ko kaise Reduce kiya jae. Aur inshort aap "Product Owner" ban jaoge. aur is tarah aap interview me apne project ko 10X time behtar present kar paoge. 
    
    
    3. Choose Relevant Projects: Choose problems which are close to the industry. Agar Interviw me dikh gaya interviwer ko ki aapne us cheej me kaam kar rakha hai. jiski un logo ko jaroorat hai. To ab Company ke owner ko, Recruiter ko, interviewr ko, sabko bas AAP chahiye. 
    e.g., Netflix would love to have a guy. jisne past me recommender system par kaam kiya hua hai. Swiggy would love to have a guy jisne ek aise project par kaaam kiya hua hai jisme wo restorent ke characteristic ke basis par restorent ko cluster kar pae. 
    
    
    4. Choose Tech Wisely: Choose the right technology stack. kisi bhi ek Projects ko banane ke kai tarike hai. par AApko wahi Technology choose karna chahiye jo sabse jyada widely accepted hai. jo Universally accepted hai. jyada companies jisko use kar ke apna kaam kar rahi hai. 
    Now how to stay updated with new toolkit or new technology stack which is being used by so many users: 
    @You could go to google Trends.
    @You could follow blogs where this types of articles publish.
    @ Tip : You should follow the USA or like UK. because we would also follow what these country are currently following. 
    
    
    
    5. Recency Bias: Hum sabhi log Recent me jo cheeje ho rahi hoti hai unko jyada value karte hai. instead of the past one the old one. 
    aapko aise projects banane hai jo abhi ho rahi cheejo ke oopar ho. e.g., Olympic ke time me agar aap interview de rahe hote to aap Olympic data Analysis app naam se ek chota sa project bana sakte the jisme ye hota ki kis Athlete ne kitne Medal jeete. bas ye chota sa cheej se Interviewer ke dimag me ek Recency Bias aaega aur ye idea stick karega, 10 candidate me wo aapko yaad rakhega kyuki aapne wo cheej banai jo abhi trend me hai. aur is tarah aapko profile ko ek edge mil jaega. 
   



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  How to select A Project in Data Science by CampusX

















