
Linkedin: Longer version of your Resume. which is available online. Where you would need to update top to bottum. Make sure it is 5 Star. every detail you write from top to bottum it should make sense. Update every small things that occur in your professional life.

Add keyword which a recuiter could use to search on the search bar like junior Data Scientist.
Use also open to work.

They add every keyword at once like: data scientist, tensorflow, scipy, javasript, front end engeneer, full stack ingeneer, 

And after adding all these keywords. the profiles which popup they send interview call offer.

Add every experience, certificates and licence which contains keyword, Add profile bio, summury every thing.

Linkedin is a professional website. So, use it on a professional way. 
If you are posting photo of you, just stand in front of a wall, wear a coat and just click the picture.

Look you have so many experience. you have done so many courses. you have done some blogging, some youtube channel, but how could some one will know that you know all these things and you have the patience to do these knowledgeble and usefull things and you have not wasted your time on party, shopping, unusefull activity.
How could someone who don't know you personally could know all those things.
So, mention all of them on your Linkedin profile.

Don't just add one or two line on your summary. 

Mention what you have done, what you are currently doing, and what you want to do on future. 
Your story should be clear. So, that it would get easy for the recruiter to send you an offer to interview call.

Try to take recommendation. 
Try to take more skillset.
Try to Add 50 skills.
Take more and more indorsement.


Apply for every job which is open that matches with your resume.
Don't loose the opportunity untill it is closed.

Apply and move on don't wait for the call after 3 to 4 days.

Networking: 

Peoples on your network will always refferr you, they will always keep you in mind. 
People will reach out to you saying that hey, Arsh this openning has been open in my company or in my team. would you like to interview for it.

So, try to make sure you have network, where people know about your skillset, people know what you can do.

But try to be very very professional on doing all these things like sending messeges like comments etc. 

If some hiring manager and recruiter posting lot of content. You can comment on their post and you can try to engage with the person and when you engage with the person. The person will get a notification. when they get a notification. they will see your profile for sure. And if they are hiring, or their company team is hiring for a relevent role. they are for sure will remember you and they can give you a interview call.

