                           "What i Learned from 300 books"

        never ask for someones opinion:
instead ask for advice. ye feedback lene me help karta hai. advice mangne se hi aadmi ko lagega ki aapko unki jaroorat hai, aur unko aapki madad karni chahiye. agar hum unse unka opinion mangenge to wo aap se jyada apne oopar focus karenge. aapko jo bhi answer denge usse apka faida hoga ki nahi wo ye nahi dekhenge. wo bas apna nature show karenge.

        don't be a donkey:
wo gadha jo confuse tha ki pahle paani piye ya pahle ghas khae. aur isi confusion me mar gaya. to ek ek kaam ko niptao aur aage padhte raho, kisko kare kisko nai isko sochne me time waste mat karo. das kaam ko ek saath karne ki koshish mat karna. nahi to kuch bhi complete nahi hoga.

        put in place:
jis tarah chef cooking start nahi karte hai tab tak jab tak unka sab samaan unke kaam ke jagah par nahi hota hai.
isi tarah kisi bhi kaam ko start nahi karna jab tak wo pre planned nahi ho ki kya padhna hai, kaha tak padhna hai, kab tak padhna hai, kis kis website se ya book se padhna hai, sabko saamne rakhna taki mind ko baar baar planning me time waste na karna pade wo bas easily apna saara focus kaam pe rakhe aur asaani se us kaam ko poora kar sake confusion se bach sake.
task ko karne ke liye pahle se hi preperation kar ke rakhna hai, taki mind ko us task ko start karne me jyada effort nahi dalna padega.

        there is a limit of no of decision making:
mera har ek decision mere mental energy ko consume karta hai jo ki limited hai. isliye sirf apne most important decision lene me hi is energy ko use karna hai. baaki sab kaam ke liye ek din pahle hi decision le lo. ya automate kar do.

        don't make to do list make success list:
success un logo ko nahi milti jo daily bakiyo se jyada kaam karte hai, balki success un logo ko milti hai jo daily un kaam ko karte hai jo karna important hai. 
To do list long hoti hai, aur ek success list short hoti hai, 
    To-do-list:

    football class,
    typing 
    college class, 
    motivation video, 
    deeni video, 
    english learn,
    graduation exam preperation,
    deen ki baat,

        succes list:

             Data Science


            kaam ko opportunity ki tarah dekho:
kaam ko karna padega aisa nahi dekhna hai. kaam ko opportunity ki tarah dekhna hai. Allah ka shukr ada karna hai, aur khush ho ke karna hai ki Allah ne humko is kaam ki taufiq diya. mai is kaam se apne ghar walo ke huqook ada kar sakta hu. ye jawani dubara nahi aayegi, ye tuafiq dubaara nahi milega. ye din dubaara nahi ayega.



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





                        "Scientific Study Techniques"

Put your phone away. put your phone as far as possible. Location: other room.

spreading out your study sessions is more effective than doing one long marathon. Take the breaks. study 50 minutes then takee a 10 minutes break.

Testing > studying. if you already studied the material, test youself rather than study it again.

make deadlines.

workout regularly.

switch between concepts while you study.

associate words to visuals.

Most high Retention Rate :  

Lecture.            5%
Reading.           10%
Audio/Visual.       20%
Demonstration.      30%
Discussion Group.   50%
Practice by doing.   75%
Teach others.       90%

    I have to focus on only last two of them : Teach others.        90%
                                           Practice by doing.    75%





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





                           5 Books You Must read in your 20's:

1. The defining decade.
2. What you're really meant to do.
3. The Namesake by Jhumpa Lahiri: movie also made based on the story in this book.
4. Year of Yes. by Shonda Rhimes.
5. Bold by steven kotler.




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------






                           5 Books You Must Read in 2022

        1. The magic of thinking Big: 
to build strong believe system, 

        2. The power of Habit.

        3. Rich dad poor dad.

        4. Hyper focus.

        5. The power of Now.




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





                            Psychology of Money summery:

    1. The Hardest financial skill is getting the goalpost to stop moving:
Know when is enough. You have to calculate it to know when you should stop. Calculate it by calculating The prices of the things you want in your life.
Most difficult skill is that, you should know when you will stop. Don't do comparisions with other jo duniya me aapse acha ho paise me apse acha ho.

    2. Confounding Compounding:
The power of compounding.

    3. Getting wealthy vs staying wealthy:

    4. Tails you win:

    5. Money is not for expensive cars its about freedom:

    6. Always plan for room of error:

    7. Controlling Your Time is the biggest wealth.
      - Paisa kamana aur bina apna time diye paisa kamana don't have to work for money I will do things that automatically make me money. Taki apne is precious time ko us kaam me istemal karna jisse paisa ki ummeed na rakhe wo kaam hum kare sirf Allah ke liye. 
    8. 






-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------







                       Avoid Speaking these 5 words to yourself.

1. Should   :   replace should with will. for yourself.
2. Soon     :   I will win soon. I will try to achive it soon. Make timeline.
3. Try      :  I will try a business. I will do business.
4. May be   : 
5. Need     : Mujhe ye kaam karna padega. I need to do this work. Replace this word with LIKE or LOVE or WANT . I would Love to do this. I like to do this. I want to leave this ediction. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


  
                        How to choose Great Friends by Valuetainment

One Loyal Friend is worth 10 Thousand Relatives.- Euripides.

Because that one friend know the whole picture of you and they will stab you in your face, in front of you. Not behind your back. 
And because of this that friend is so valuable. 

How to make friends like that:

Be selective and raise your standered.
Find friends that have common goal.
Find friends that are in common values and common interest.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------





                    5 things you need to know in your 20s

    1. An Abundance of time and options:
You will never have more free time in your life than you have right now. Your actions which you are taking right now will decide the direction of your remaining and whole life. 
you have so much time again you will probably never have as much time and energy as you have now. so take advantage of it. What skills you want to learn. 
Right now you can do anything but not everything.


    2. Take more risks and L's:
Take lots and lots of L's or losses matlab bahut jyada baar haro. kuch kiye bina nahi kar ke apna 100% de ke haaro. apna 100% de ke bejati karao.
Later of few years You will be happy by remembering that these were the greatest decision i made. 


    3. Not everyone is going to like you:
kyuki har koi aisa nahi hoga jiska baat sun ke aur jiska kaam dekh ke darguzar kar diya jay. aur usko please kiya jae, apne baato se uska dil me chot na lage is liye bola hi na jae. aur bas taal diya jae, bas jane diya jae, kyuki koi na koi aisa hoga jo asli Zalim hoga aur usko Zulm se rokna mera kaam hona chahiye. waise aadmi ko please karne kaa koshish nahi karna chahiye. Stop caring what they will think of you. 
Har kisi ko please nahi karna hai, har kisi se expectation nahi rakhna hai ki wo humko pasand kare aur confrontation ko avoid karte rahe. 
Stop trying to please everyone.


    4. Go out as much as possible:
There's never again going to be a time in your life where you'll have as much energy time and motivation to go out and meet people the sad reality is the older you get the less you're gonna go out. it'll be harder and harder for you and your friends to get together as they get married have kids. 
aur khud hi socho ki shadi shuda aadmi kitna bahar dikhta hai shaam me. to aadmi ko janne ka aur insan ke psychology ko samjhne ka abhi se acha time aur nahi hai. 
Aur ye best time hai to actually learn how to be comfortable and natural in these types of environments. Jo ki bahut jyada maine rakhta hai. kyuki hum aise time me bolna kuch chahte hai, aur bol kuch dete hai, aur natural behave bhi nahi kar paate hai. 


    5. Move Out:
Apne ammi abbu se alag rahna hai kuch din tak, aur ghar ka saara jimmedari apne oopar lena hai, Learn to live truly independent. Became a True Man. 



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------







                            Outliers Summary:

1. Opportunities
2. Legacy
                   The Rule of 10,000 Hours:
If anyone can practice 1 thing or skill he can be a master of that.






-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------






                             The Truth about female nature



How are you supposed to take care of her if you can even take care of yourself?

Men chase championships.
Women chase Champions.

If you want her to bring out her faminine, sweet, nurturing energy and become attracted to you then you need to display sufficient masculine energy to her.

If you want her as your girl you have to be her Man.





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                    Life Changing



1.    The 20 Second Rule:

Jis kaam ko karne me mental aur physical resistence bahut kam lagta hai. hum insan usi kaam ko karna chahte hai. 
Aur jis kaam ko karne me mental aur physical resistence at least 20 second ke liye ho jata wo kaam ko karna bahut hard hota hai. 

Jis bhi kaam ko karna chahte hai, apne aadat me lana chahte hai, usko karne ke liye "resistence" ko jitna kam kar sakte hai utna kam kar dena hai, Aur jitne distractions ke raste me resistence hai unko badha dena hai.
Matlab:
Jis kaam ko karna chahte hai usko start karne me 20 second se bhi kam ka time lagna chahiye.
Aur 
jis kaam ko karne se Allah naraz hote hai, usko start karne me 20 second se jyada time lagna chahiye. start karne se pahle jo time lag raha hai uske preperation me wo jitna lamba hoga, utna acha hai.



2.     Do the Difficult Thing first:

Us kaam ko sabse pahle karna hai, jo sabse hard lagta ho.
Aur phir chatni aur maje wale kaam ko last me karna hai.



3.     Winning Small:

Big Commitment kabhi nahi karni hai. 
Isme 2 minute rule apply karna hai, apne aap ko bas ye bolo ki bas 2 minute ke liye karenge. phir agar acha lagega to dekhenge.

Pahle chote commitment karo usko win karo phir dhire dhire level ko badhao.



3.  Memory Feed:

Apne brain ko wahi cheej khilao jo tumhare kaam se related hai.















             How to study when you don't feel like Studying by Anuj Pachhel


        Two Minute Rule

    Just tell Your brain ki 2 minutes sirf padhna hai jyada nahi padhna hai.


        Then 5 Minutes 

    Again tell Your brain ki 5 Minutes padhna hai jyada nahi padhna hai.


        Then 50 minutes of Pomodoro.

    5 minutes khatam hote hi 50 minute ka pomodoro laga do.



    The Retrospective Approch:

    Instead of just reading the book or watching the lecture. Try to solve some questions even you don't know anything about that topic.
by solving the question, you would know that this and this topic is important.



    Make a CountDown:

    Looking at that counter go down everyday. 


    New Routine Every week

    Readjust your Daily Routine Every week as needed.





                      How to Study for long Hours without Burnout:


Bigtimer.net

Start 2 hours of timer then start studying and when you get distracted by your thoughts hit the space bar and pause the timer. And when you want to study again, then hit the space bar again and start studieng again.

2 to 3 Hours is the Sweet spot.

And when timer take down to Zero then only and only you are allowed to take breake. 






How to Say No By seekin source: The Art of Saying No.


>Replace “No” With Another Word –
1. Categorical No:              Create Boundaries and Values. And Rules.
2. Reference of Commitment:    Sorry yar office ke bad gym jane ka commitment kiya hai. mujhe waha jana padega hi. Ya maine commitment diya hai, ki ek week ke andar project complete kar denge. Ya maine family ko time dene ka commitment kiya hai.
“I don’t have time to help you because I’m working on a crucial report that’s due in two hours.”

>Offer an Alternative –
Suggest Another Person Who’s Better Qualified































Udemy: Time Management Mastery: 10X Your Time, Join the New Rich:





    1. Escape Normal:

Why do nearly all jobs require 40 hours of work per week?

You can practice lifestyle design, which is defined by Tim Ferriss as being crystal clear on exactly

what you want your life to look like.

Most people don't do this since it seems so straightforward.


To sum up Tim's goal setting advice, here's what he says.

Make a list of things you aim to achieve in the following year or two.

There are a wide variety of things that you may want to acquire, such as new skills, material possessions

and experiences determine the monthly cost of each of these items.

As a result, you'll have to target monthly income number, which we'll name TMI : target monthly income,

then divide this number by  30 to get a TDI: target Daily income.





    2. Adopt selective ignorance:

If you want to accomplish anything important for the future of your life, you need to quit wasting

time on "irrelevant knowledge".


So again, never forget the secret to elite performance and productivity.

You must focus on "just in time information" instead of "just in case information".





    3. The More Time You have the more time you waste:

Since there eight hours in the day, we use all of them, Tim says if we had 15, we'd have enough room for 15.

According to Parkinson's Law,: 
"work expands to cover the time available for its completion"

He suggests adopting this approach.

As a result, you should 
set strict 
    "deadlines for yourself and keep with them".


The more time you have, the more time you waste.

The ability to work more efficiently and effectively as a result of increased pressure is one of the greatest benefits of creating urgency.



    4. Concentrate on the 20%:

The 80 20 rule is a wildly popular concept in the toolkit of all productive individuals.

At its core, the 80:20 principle is about capitalizing on asymmetries between inputs and outputs.


    5. Work Smarter not harder:


We waste time because we don't know how to use it.

Only half of the time spent at work is devoted to actual work.

The rest is made up of irrelevant meetings, emails and administrative tasks that can be automated.

    keep in mind that one day of conscious work is far superior than three days of unconscious work.




    6. Buisyness is Not the same as productivity:


"Being busy is not the same as being productive".

A two hour workday is significantly more productive than an eight hour day spent juggling emails and

sorting through documents that you never look at.


Simple lack of self-discipline and poor prioritization are the root causes of being awfully busy.



as

a way to keep track of your progress.

Tim Ferriss suggests creating a recurring reminder to check in with yourself several times a day while

at work.

Ask yourself, Am I creating distractions to avoid the important and am I being busy or am I being productive?

Ask yourself these questions a few times throughout the day.

Answer these questions, honestly.

Take yourself seriously, and nobody else will stop action faking and avoid theatre work at all costs.




    7. Eliminate switching costs and startup costs:

Switching costs and start up costs are two of the most common costs associated with getting any work

done.

A creative ability to perform at their top requires the same amount of time spent warming up as that

of a sports person




Starting and ending work frequently with significant amount of time and resources, rather than constantly

pausing, taking breaks and then attempting to bring yourself back to the work.

It would be prudent to aim to complete all of your work in a few hyper productive sessions.




You don't wash your clothes every time one of them gets soiled and you don't go to the grocery shop

every time you need one item.


To avoid feeling guilty about your use, combine it into a single guilt free binge.

See 30 to 60 minutes once or twice a week, and then ignore your feed and go about your business as

usual.


    8. Outsource Outsource Outsource

eliminate, then try to automate:

First, you need to eliminate useless tasks, then automate and outsource low value tasks.


This precious Tim Ferriss quote, "I should never automate something that can be eliminated. I never delegate something that can be automated or streamlined. Otherwise, I will wear someone else's time instead of my own, which now wastes my hard earned cash."

So we said first, we need to eliminate. Then we automate and outsource.
Achieving the four hour work week is all about outsourcing.


    8. Shallow vs Deep Work

deep work in general requires a long term investment of time and effort and is highly, highly valuable.

The author found that individuals are more satisfied when they are actively involved in an activity, not when they are just resting and doing nothing.



    9. Create Daily Routine:

Many of history's most brilliant individuals relied on daily routines to keep them on task and organized in their professional lives.
the most important thing was that they had all formed regular routines to encourage their creativity.


    10. 4 Work Styles

1. The Monastic Strategy
2. The Bimodal Strategy
3. The Rhythmic Strategy
4. The Journalistic Strategy


    11. Sleep Effectively:


There are many individuals in the world today who undertake physically and psychologically demanding activities and sleep for just four to six hours a night, which is quite uncommon.




----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    How to Overcome Procastination : by Ali Abdal


Don't procastinate and you can't procastinate, you are not allowed to procastinate. After making a block of that task in your calander.

Think Your Self as System: 
Don't think you are a human thats why you will work more harder than that. You can do it for only short amount of time. but if you want to do it for a long amount of time like for 3 Months, 6 Months then you can't do it for long amount of time. Unless you have some very powerfull external force is being applied, like scolding of a strict Father. or Strong Angry or envy against some other person. 
So, Think Yourself as a machine or a Program on computer. to work on a perticular field more harder for a long amount of time. 
Like You can't just make a computer twice as fast without changing something about the code and without optimizing the code. 

Instead of i will go to gym today. but i don't feel like going to gym. Today why my mood is not good to go to the gym. No, No, I just need to try harder. be more deciplined. We put more expectation on ourselves. This would not work Because this is not the sustainable way of doing this thing.
Think like what is the system i can design around this, to make it more likely that i am gonna do it. 
Because i am not a human who can apply more effort. I am a system. if the system of the coding changes. i can do the thing. 
So, the solution would be something like that : 
    # Finding a nearby gym.
    # Finding a gym I enjoy going to 
    # Finding a personal Trainer
    # Finding an accountability buddy
    # Finding a way to track my workout.

These are all system which you can put in place. So, to try to design a system that would make way easier for you to do the thing.




-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                        Gigle: My Story and Life lessons till now



Majdoor soch : Agar aapko aage badhte rahna hai to aapko ek majdoor soch rakhni padegi. yani jis tarike se ek majdoor har roz zero se start karta hai, use pata hai ki agar usne aaj kaam nahi kiya to usko aur uske pariwar walo ko khana nahi milega. 


Don't Focus on Half story: Agar hum kisi bhi story ko waha se start kare jaha se aadmi paise kamana start kar deta hai. ya jaha se use success milni start hui thi. to ye ek adhuri kahani hogi. yaha se sochna start nahi karna hai. nahi to tum bhi wahi se sochna start karoge aur agar waha se us step ko follow karoge to titar bater ban kar rah jaoge. har kisi ka kahani zero se start hota hai. basic se start hota hai. wo pahle basic mathematics seekhta hai. wo basic cheej me bahut mehnat karta hai. aur constantly mehnat karte rahta hai. "tumko abhi jo problems aa rahi hai tumko unki value karna hai kyuki tumhare liye sabse valuable abhi yahi hai aur ye sochna hai ki unko tackle kaise kare. Yahi problem solving aur apne chote chote problems ki value karna tumhara future aur decisions ko decide karega."


Working on Habits: Discipline is must. Free time me apne skills par kaam karte rahna hai. 

Future Prediction: Future ko predict karte raho. ki future me kya change hone wala hai. kyuki har change me ek opportunity hona pakka hai. Understand market opportunity. aur market ke opportunity ko samajhne ka sabse aasan tarika hai Learn karte rahna, learning continue rakhna. agar hum learn karte rahenge to market pattern ko samajh paenge. 
Aur jab confirm ho ki is opportunity ko track kar liya hai. to usko jald se jald grab kar lo. Opportunity ko pane ke liye Act karo. Action lo. 

Believe in the process: Agar tum thik direction me ja rahe ho to chalte raho. speed matter nahi karti. 100km per hour ke jagah agar 60 km per hour bhi chaloge to destination tak jaroor pahuch jaoge. ha 2 se 3 mahina late pahuchoge par pahuchoge jaroor. 


"For all the days prepare                
And treat them ever alike               
When you are the anvil bear            
When you are the hammer strike"


: means prepare every day.
: Treat every day same. wheater it is an easy day, happy day, tough day or tougher day. Don't leave preperation.
: us situation me jab situation bahut tough hai. us tarah jaise us garm lohe ki hoti hai. jo aag ki bhatti me tap rahi hai. hathouda means hammer banne ke liye. to bear karte raho sahan karte raho. sabr karte raho jaddojahad karte raho. 
: Aur jab opportunity aa jae opportunity ko grab karne ke layak ban jao tab strike karo. opportunity grab kar lo. ab strike karo kyuki ab tum Hammer ban chuke ho.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                         Habits of Highly successful People:


Self Learning:  Elon Musk, and a Youtuber Rocket Scientist.

If you are willing to work hard You will get it (Obsession):   Mr. Beast

Its the Attitude not the privilages:   Arnold's Najayaz son.

The Harder You work the luckier you get: Kiran Majoomdar: Biocon company. 




Book Summary: 


Weekly and Monthly Goal SEt karna hai. Daily goal nahi.








