                            

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            Day 2: AI vs ML vs DL

AI : Main task of AI is Pattern Recognition, which was expert in Expert system. and was previously AI was equal to expert system. expert system: an expert system was used like an expert of chess game used to code nearly all possible outcome into a program using if else.
But AI was failing in some area when it was using expert system. like it used to fail in image recognition, voice recognition etc. because it was not possible to code in if else all possible outcome of dog breeds or all possible meanings of a voices.
Thats where Machine Learning came into the field. and solved this problem. 

Machine Learning: Machine is a computer science field where you use statistical technique to find pattern and learn that pattern in your data. The main differnce in machine learning and symbolic ai or expert system is that you don't have to do explicit programming in machine learning. explicit programming means rule based programming where you code line by line for every logic or every possible outcome. 
Instead you feed a data to your system. and your system finds patterns in your data and write rules for the pattern recognition and learn pattern through that data. so, that when system get new data they will find patterns in that data.

Deep Learning: There is a peak came in recently though in around like 2012. Deep Learning is a Machine Learning. Same procedure same process. feeding data like train data. test data. and you predict pattern. The only difference is that the algorithm used by deep learning is a advance algorithm because it is inspired with our biology, biology of a human. inspired with our neuron. The core unit of Deep learning is based on biological neuron.
Its performence increases when you add multiple layers of neuron. the performance and intelligence of system will increase as you increase the number of layers of neuron.
Its performence increases and increases as we feed it data. The more we feed it data. the more its performence increases. While in machine Learning it also increases with the amount of data we feed to the system. but it increases for a certain limit. when it reaches a limit. after that its performance and intelligence can't be increased. And this is the main reason why Deep Learning comes in and why we need Deep Learning. 
On big data Deep Learning is better but for a limited amount of task and data you don't use Deep Learning. 
    "Aap sui ko use karne ke jagah Talwar nahi use kar sakte ho. aap wo use nahi karoge. aapko ek kabootar ko jibah karna hai. aap talwar bhi use kar sakte ho. lekin aapka kaam ek chote se chaku se hi ho ja raha hai to aap utne bade cheej ko kyu use karoge."


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            Day 3: Types of Machine Learning

Based on amount of supervision Needed we can divide our Machine Learning Algorithm:

1. Supervised ML
2. Unsupervised ML
3. Semi Supervised ML
4. Reinforcement ML

1. Supervised ML : if you have input and output. and you want to find relationship b/w input and output. So, that you could tell or predict the output for a new input. Then this learning is called Supervised Machine Learning. You will do Supervised ML the most, amongs all the types of ML.

    a) Regression: if your output is in numerical form. e.g., How many dogs are present.
    b) Classification: Your output would be categorical. e.g, is Dog is present. Yes or NO.




2. Unsupervised ML: There are lot of operations. will be using Unsupervised ML.
    a) Clustering : Clustering algorithm could detect which data fall from which group. and it would group that data into different groups.
    b) Anomaly : It would detect outliers and remove that outliers
    c) Dimensionality reduction: it reduces the dimensions or colums of data itelligently to make algorithm more efficient.
    d) Association Rule learning.: it would find association and relation between data.




3. Semi Supervised ML:
 It is partially supervised and partially unsupervised. it Helps in Labelling. output is called lebel. e.g., Dog tha ya nahi. ye kon bataega. Human bataega. aur is cheej me cost bahut lagta hai. You could scrape so many input but you have to bring human effort in making output. like scrape so many images of dogs for free this is input. but ek banda chahiye hoga. ye batane ke liye ki is image me kya hai. isko kahte hai output. isko lebal karna padta hai. aur isme human effort lagta hai.
par is Semi Supervised ML ke madad se hum ek ya do ko lebel karte hai. aur baaki sab autometically lebal ho jata hai.
e.g., Google photo ek app hai jisme ye har photo ko alag alag catogary me divide kar dega. jaise is chikne ladke ke photo ko alag(Arsh), is bache ke photo ko alag(Zihan), is aadmi ke photo ko alag jiska much bhi hai aur dadhi bhi hai(Abbu). Ye "Clustering" ka example hai.
    Ab wo us dadhi wale aadmi ke photo ko saamne laega aur poochega ki ye kaoun hai. AAp bata doge ki ye "Abbu" hain. to wo us dadhi mooch wale aadmi ke group ke saare photo ko label kar dega "Abbu" se. to ye Semi Supervised ML. ka example hai.



4. Reinforcement ML: 
Supervised learning ka fanda ye tha ki Input aur output dono hona chahiye. 
Unsupervised ka fanda ye tha ki aap sirf input dete ho.
Reinforcement ka fanda ye hai. ki yaha par aap data dete hi nahi ho. aapke system ke paas koi data hota hi nahi hai. aapka algorithm ekdam scratch se seekhna start karta hai. aur phir dheere dheere improve karta jata hai. kaam karta hai ho gaya to thik usse bhi seekhta hai. ya agar galti hota hai to usse bhi seekhta hai.
galti karne se usko punishment milta hai. jaise uska marks kat say -50. 
aur kaam ko sahi karne se usko reward milta hai. say +50. 

galti karta hai. to wo apne system ko khud hi se update karta hai. ki ye kaam ab dubaara nahi karna hai. 
Sahi karta hai. to apne system ko update karta hai. ki aise situation me isi kaam ko karna hai. yahi option ko choose karna hai.
Uska goal ye rahta hai. apne reward ko badhana aur punishment ko ghatana.














